Let’s turn our attention
to the Schiller family.
Is it possible to balance raising a family
with a busy spiritual routine?
And if circumstances allow,
can parents reach out for spiritual goals
—even full-time service?
Let’s listen to their answers
to those questions.
Sometimes people say:
“Well, you know, what was your secret?
How did you raise six kids?”
We got married September 16, 1972.
Two things started coming quickly
—spiritual privileges came along
and the children came along—
together.
I was made an elder
shortly after the elder arrangement
came into effect.
The kids were just part of all that,
and you might think
that sometimes they didn’t know it.
We were doing
substitute work with five children,
and I don’t think they
even knew what we were doing.
In 1989, we were pioneering,
and then we had the opportunity
to help out at Bethel,
maybe a week or two at a time.
About that time,
Patterson was starting up.
And we kind of recognized
that maybe we were getting too comfortable.
We went one time to Bethel and said:
“Hey, if you need a doctor out at Patterson,
why, we’d be available.
Or we could make ourselves available,
maybe.”
And wouldn’t you know it,
shortly after, we got a call,
“How quickly could you
sell your place and be up here?”
So we went to Bethel with six kids,
sold our house at a loss so we could do that,
and started a new life there.
So we learned pretty quickly:
Don’t turn down any privileges
—and especially not because we had kids.
When we went to Bethel,
the oldest one was 17.
Having children
kept my husband and me very humble
because as soon as you thought
you had something figured out,
each child needed
to be disciplined in a different way.
And as soon as you thought,
‘Boy, you know, I’ve got this figured out,’
you’re thrown a curve.
A challenge was
to keep doing the basic things.
You’d come home tired.
It would be so easy
not to have the family study
maybe one Monday.
It’s those basic, simple things
that I think kept us on an even keel.
I often think
of the illustration that Jesus gave
at the end of the Sermon on the Mount,
what he said about this foundation
that was washed away.
And Jesus never blamed the storm;
he blamed the foundation.
And so we recognize that any child anywhere
—in fact, even adults—
can get their faith tested.
So we tried to really make sure
they had a good foundation
that didn’t get washed away.
Prepare them,
let them learn how to deal with people
while they’re under your care,
and get them ready for life.
We got to thinking, ‘Other parents
require their kids to go to college,’
so we just required them
to pioneer for a year.
Any kind of education—
Any kind of secular education can teach you
how to have a skill so that you have a job.
But the Bible teaches you how to live,
and it teaches you principles
that you can live your life by.
And all of them kept pioneering.
You know, they did various jobs
to support themselves.
They cleaned; they worked at lumberyards;
they worked on roofing.
And none of them have
a complicated life that holds them down.
I wanted everlasting life
for my children,
and I knew I would have to give
them back to Jehovah.
We have to realize we don’t own our children
—Jehovah does.
And we have to respect that.
We’re not telling them what to do anymore.
We appreciate
and we’re very, very thankful
when our children,
as far away as they are
and as busy as they are,
take the time to communicate with us.
And I know you won’t remember this,
but I remember one time,
before you fell asleep at night,
I said,
“With all that you have done for Jehovah,
what would you like in return?”
Do you remember what you said?
You said three words, “All my children.”
In Deuteronomy it says:
“I have put life and death before you,
. . . and you must choose.”
So we can do what we can as parents
—some things good,
some things not so good.
In the end, each one had to make
his or her own decision.
And that’s why, again,
it was not any secret we had.
We’re so proud of what the kids decided
and how they turned out
because it was their decision.
I think that’s the thing that we’ve learned:
Don’t turn down opportunities.
Isn’t it wonderful to hear of ones
like Brother and Sister Schiller
who have offered their gifts to Jehovah?
Brother Schiller said
that it was doing the basic things
that kept his family focused spiritually.
So when opportunities came along,
he was able to do more,
which included pioneering,
substitute circuit work,
and using the medical training
he had already acquired
to volunteer
at the Patterson Educational Center.
Proverbs 10:22 says:
“It is the blessing of Jehovah
that makes one rich,
and He adds no hardship with it.”(Ftn.)
That certainly has proved true
for Brother Schiller and his family.